Foundry v14 Vision:

Levels options:
Elevation: top/bottom. Levels can overlap in elevation, partially or full.
- There is a base elevation value that has no UI and is set to 0. Presumably used to calculate the elevation display.
- A token on a level has elevation displayed measured from the base. This is cosmetic only.
Visible levels: Set. If added, those levels are viewable from this level.

Key variables:
canvas.scene.levels: Embedded collection of levels


Repeated for all placeable types:
wall.document.level: Level of the wall.
canvas.walls.placeables: Walls *only* for the current level of the user.
canvas.walls.quadtree: Walls *only* for the current level of the user.
canvas.scene.walls: *All* wall documents for the scene at all levels.

Every document in the scene is at canvas.scene.walls | canvas.scene.tokens | etc.
Only placeables that may be viewable for a scene will be at canvas.walls.placeables | canvas.tokens.placeables | etc.
Example: If a level is not viewable, tokens on that level will not have an associated placeable when on a different level.
--> So to track geometries, it is preferable to tie them to documents, not placeables.


Level textures can be found at:
canvas.primary.levelTextures

Only textures currently viewable are present.
The name is "Level.#.background" and "Level.#.foreground".
The # corresponds to the number of the level in the canvas.scene.levels embedded collection.


Example:
Basement not viewable by other levels.
Ground: Cannot view first floor
First floor: Can view ground.

Imagine a first floor rectangular balcony with a series of walls/doors under it. From the far balcony, first floor should see the ground unless the door under the balcony is shut.

Also, standing over the ground level on the first floor should block visibility if on a solid tile. (This does not happen in base Foundry.)

Visibility plan:

1. A given walls should be divided into levels. If it is not present on that level, the face for that level should be dropped. If it is not present on a level but present on another level that partially overlaps, remove any portion that contains the non-present level. E.g.:
- Level 0: 0–15
- Level 1: 10–25
- Level 2: 20–30
All potential wall intervals: -∞–0, 0–10 (#0), 10–15 (#0, #1), 15–20 (#1), 20–25 (#1, #2), 25–30 (#2), 30–∞
If wall is not present on 1, it would go -∞–0, 0–10, 25–30, 30–∞

2. Likely need to use canvas.scene.walls and create different quadtree to access all walls.

3. Default assumption is that the entire scene should be drawn/modeled regardless of level. Wall gaps will handle when walls are not present on a level.

4. If the viewer token is on a level that cannot view another level, all placeable portions *for that non-viewed level only* should be removed.

5. Only regions and walls have placeable portions per-level.
- Tiles are viewed on multiple levels but have a single elevation. If a tile is not on a level, it is dropped *only for that level*.
- Tokens are on only one level at a time. Tokens on a non-viewable level are dropped *only for that level.*


To prepare obstacles:
- Walls: Segment by level.
- Regions: Segment by level.

Thus, to test obstacles:
Identify the token (viewer) and its current level. Identify non-viewable levels.

1. Filter out tiles exclusive to a non-viewable level(s). If on both viewable and non-viewable, keep.
2. Filter out tokens that are on a non-viewable level(s). Tokens can only be on one level at a time.
3. Filter out wall portions exclusive to a non-viewable level(s). (Same for region-created walls.)
4. Terrain mapper: Filter out region portions exclusive to a non-viewable level.

For remaining, do intersection tests or create geometry as needed.





